<!-- loio8cb10332523e4a2a85b4204701a26a43 -->

# Fix Signing key Rotation Issues

Troubleshoot errors related to manual signing key rotation for access tokens issued by Edge Local Authentication and Authorization.



## Context

In Edge Integration Cell, you can manually rotate the signing key for access tokens issued by Edge Local Authentication and Authorization. For more information about this functionality, see [Manually Rotate Signing Keys of Access Tokens](60-Security/manually-rotate-signing-keys-of-access-tokens-0e38815.md).

When rotating the signing keys, you can encounter the following error:`Manual signing key rotation could not be completed. Check the system logs for more details. Log ID: 8a48e44d-0765-4940-885f-eb74abdf9727`

To analyze the cause of the error, follow these steps:



## Procedure

1.  Check the logs from the Edge API App and the Edge Security Artifact Controller components.

    1.  To fetch the component pods, run the following command in the kubectl tool:

        `kubectl get pods -n edge-icell` 

    2.  This returns a list of pods labeled as `edge-api-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy` and `esac-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy`.


2.  To access the component logs and save them into a file in your current working directory, use these commands:

    1.  `kubectl logs edge-api-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy -n edge-icell api > edge-api-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy` for the Edge API App.

    2.  `kubectl logs esac-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy -n edge-icell esac > esac-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy` for the Edge Security Artifact Controller.

        > ### Note:  
        > Here, `edge-api-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy` and `esac-xxxxxxxxxx-yyyyy` represent the pod names from the list generated by the previous command. If multiple pods appear in the list, run the commands described in this step for each pod.


3.  Open the files with a text editor and search for the log entries. Focus on entries containing the Log ID mentioned in the initial error message.

4.  To troubleshoot based on different error messages, perform the following actions:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Error Message
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Reason
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Action
    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    `Error while obtaining the lock for manual signing key rotation`
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    This error can occur after you initiate signing key rotation.
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    To preserve active requests, perform the *Rotate* action again after 10 minutes. However, rotating the signing key within this interval is idempotent. If the error persists, create a support ticket for the component BC-CP-IS-EDG-ELA.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    `ESAC communicator call for manual signing key rotation executed with HttpClientErrorException`
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    This error can occur if the *Edge API App* component pods face issues during initialization or while running.
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Check the pod statuses in *Component Monitor* and address any irregularities. If the error persists, create a support ticket for the component BC-CP-IS-EDG-ELA.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    `ESAC communicator call to get local signing keys executed with HttpClientErrorException`
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    This error can occur if the *Edge API App* component pods face issues during initialization or while running.
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Check the pod statuses in *Component Monitor* and address any irregularities. If the error persists, create a support ticket for the component BC-CP-IS-EDG-ELA.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    `ESAC communicator call for manual signing key rotation executed with HttpServerErrorException`
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    This error can occur if the *Edge Security Artifact Controller* component pods face issues during initialization or while running.
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Check the pod statuses in *Component Monitor* and resolve any irregularities. If the error persists, create a support ticket for the component BC-CP-IS-EDG-ELA.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    `ESAC communicator call to get local signing keys executed with HttpServerErrorException`
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    This error can occur if the *Edge Security Artifact Controller* component pods face issues during initialization or while running.
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Check the pod statuses in *Component Monitor* and resolve any irregularities. If the error persists, create a support ticket for the component BC-CP-IS-EDG-ELA.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    

**Related Information**  


[Fix Edge Local Authentication and Authorization Issues](fix-edge-local-authentication-and-authorization-issues-4cddfbe.md "Check and fix issues related to local authentication and authorization.")

[Component Monitor](component-monitor-49f487e.md "Get information on your components.")

