<!-- loiofa6eec4f9ffc45aa89f8a2155b855ca4 -->

# Authentication

Different API may have various authentication mechanisms. The authentication mechanisms that are currently supported are Basic authentication, Client Certificate, and oAuth.

**Policy Settings**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Attribute

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

Name

</td>
<td valign="top">

The unique name of the policy within the API artifact. Each policy in an API artifact must have a unique name to prevent naming conflicts.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

Type

</td>
<td valign="top">

Select the appropriate authentication mechanism for your API.

*Basic* - Used in situations where simple userid/password-based authentication is sufficient.

*Client Certificate* – The user provides a digital certificate consisting of a public and private key, which the server verifies to provide access.

*OAuth* - Used in situations where third-party services are allowed to exchange your information without you having to give away your password.

> ### Caution:  
> If you select the *Enable Default Virtual Host HTTP* option while deploying the Edge Integration Cell solution, the Client Certificate authentication type won't work for HTTP-based calls. However, the *Basic* and *OAuth* authentication types will still function. It's important to note that the authorization header for *Basic* and *OAuth* is transmitted in plaintext format. Therefore, without HTTPS, it's vulnerable to interception attacks.

> ### Note:  
> To execute the API with Authentication policy, configure the*Process Integration Runtime* instance, and access the endpoint using the client id/ secret or certificate from that instance. For step-by-step instruction on how to create a *Process Integration Runtime* instance, see [Invoke an API Artifact by Obtaining API Credentials through Process Integration Runtime](https://help.sap.com/viewer/6afa6d14ff6d4006b5614676722ef006/CLOUD/en-US/b63baa26290948e68fedabc10b35f33d.html "To invoke an API artifact via a REST client, you'll need authentication credentials, which are generated by creating a Process Integration Runtime instance.") :arrow_upper_right:.
> 
> Now, if you execute the API, the Authentication policy should be able to successfully authenticate the request.



</td>
</tr>
</table>

**Related Information**  


[Authorization](authorization-6658409.md "This policy evaluates whether a user should be permitted to access a protected API.")

[JSON Threat Protection](json-threat-protection-c4991a6.md "Minimizes the risk posed by content-level attacks by enabling specific limits on various JSON structures, such as arrays and strings.")

[XML Threat Protection](xml-threat-protection-2e04b93.md "An XML Threat Protection policy safeguards XML-based applications and APIs from malicious attacks. It enforces rules on XML data to prevent threats such as recursive payloads, excessive node depth, and oversized payloads.")

[API Validation](api-validation-02ff41b.md "The API validation policy enables you to validate incoming request messages against an OpenAPI 3.0 Specification.")

