<!-- loioda53d93cd8fb47ff9ea55b6b278cd85e -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Creating an Integration Flow

Add an integration flow to an integration package.



## Prerequisites

You’ve created an integration package. For more information, see [Creating an Integration Package](creating-an-integration-package-9126d79.md).



## Context

An integration flow is a graphical representation of the flow and processing of messages between two or more participants using an integration runtime platform, ensuring successful communication.

You can create an integration flow in different ways:

-   Let AI generate your integration flow based on the descriptions you provide.

-   Manually add an integration flow either by creating or uploading.




<a name="loioda53d93cd8fb47ff9ea55b6b278cd85e__steps_sh3_tcl_jt"/>

## Procedure

1.  Choose *Design* \> *Integrations and APIs* to view the list of integration packages.

2.  Select the integration package in which you want to add an integration flow and choose *Edit*.

3.  Navigate to the *Artifacts* tab and choose *Add* \> *Integration Flow*.


<a name="task_sny_cxl_wbc"/>

<!-- task\_sny\_cxl\_wbc -->

## Generate Integrations with AI Assistance



<a name="task_sny_cxl_wbc__prereq_q4x_32w_hfc"/>

## Prerequisites

You have activated the AI feature, Generation of Integrations for your SAP Integration Suite tenant. See [Artificial Intelligence](artificial-intelligence-6a6727c.md)



<a name="task_sny_cxl_wbc__context_tdj_vxl_wbc"/>

## Context

SAP Integration Suite, specifically the Cloud Integration capability, provides a feature to create integration flows using Generative AI. After you activate the feature, an integration developer has a choice to generate integrations with the assistance from AI. The integration developer must describe the integration scenario when asked. Based on the descriptions and inputs, the Generative AI tool creates an integration flow. To use this feature, see the blog on [SAP Integration Suite – Generative AI based Integration Flow Generation with Mediation Steps](https://community.sap.com/t5/technology-blog-posts-by-sap/sap-integration-suite-generative-ai-based-integration-flow-generation-with/ba-p/14196606)

> ### Caution:  
> SAP does not take any responsibility for quality of the content in the input to or output of the underlying generative AI models, including but not limited to, bias, hallucinations, or inaccuracies. The user is responsible for verifying the content.

> ### Note:  
> Availability of this feature depends upon the SAP Integration Suite service plan that you use. For more information about different service plans and their supported feature set, see SAP Note [2903776](https://launchpad.support.sap.com/#/notes/2903776).



<a name="task_sny_cxl_wbc__steps_cmx_2xl_wbc"/>

## Procedure

1.  In the *Add Integration Flow* dialog, choose the method *Generate Integrations with assistance from AI*.

2.  Describe your integration scenario \(in English language\) for which you want to generate an integration flow.

3.  Choose <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> \(Send\).

4.  In the *AI Response* section, you see a positive response if your inputs are fine. Else, you see suggestions from Generative AI tool to add missing information in your scenario description.

5.  In the *Sender System*, one of your registered SAP system is selected. If you want to select another SAP system of same type, choose *Select* and pick a system of your choice.

    > ### Note:  
    > If you haven't enabled system landscape in SAP BTP cockpit, you see an empty *Sender System* field.

6.  Similarly, in the *Receiver System*, one of your registered SAP system is selected. If you want to select another SAP system of same type, choose *Select* and pick a system of your choice.

    > ### Note:  
    > If you haven't enabled system landscape in SAP BTP cockpit, you see an empty *Receiver System* field.

7.  A *Name* generated by the Generative AI tool – modify the name, if needed.

8.  Choose *Create*.




<a name="task_sny_cxl_wbc__result_j55_1nl_xbc"/>

## Results

An integration flow with the following shapes is created:

> ### Note:  
> -   When multiple adapters are identified, Generative AI may not always map the selected source system to the corresponding adapter. As a result, configurations may not be automatically filled.
> -   If you have enabled the connectivity between your system landscape in the SAP BTP cockpit and SAP Integration Suite, your registered SAP applications can expose APIs and events to SAP Integration Suite, which Generative AI tool uses to create integrations.

-   *Sender*: Represents your source system auto-filled with the details of the same in the adapter channel.

-   *Receiver*: Represents your target system auto-filled with the details of the same in the adapter channel.

-   *Integration Process*: The shape with all the intermediary steps as mentioned in the integration scenario descritpion are added. These steps would define how a message is processed in the tenant.

    > ### Remember:  
    > These flow steps are not yet configured. You must manually configure according to the requirement.


<a name="task_ik5_5wl_wbc"/>

<!-- task\_ik5\_5wl\_wbc -->

## Add Integrations Manually



<a name="task_ik5_5wl_wbc__steps_xsp_ywl_wbc"/>

## Procedure

1.  In the *Add Integration Flow* dialog, choose the method *Add Integrations manually*.

2.  If you want to create a new integration flow, execute the following substeps:

    1.  Choose the *Create* radio button.

    2.  Enter a valid name for the integration flow in the *Name* field. The *ID* field gets auto-filled.

        For a new integration flow you can define two attributes, *Name* and *ID*.

        > ### Note:  
        > -   The integration flow *ID* needs to be unique across the tenant, but you can specify the same *Name* multiple times. When you create a new integration flow, by default the entry for *ID* is generated automatically based on the string entered for *Name* \(with underscore replacing space characters\).
        > 
        > -   However, you can also manually edit the *ID* field and, once it’s modified manually, changing the name of the integration flow doesn’t make any auto-changes to the *ID* field again.

    3.  You can select the runtime profile for the integration flow in the *Runtime Profile* field. The integration flow templates used during creation adhere to the latest version of a component available in the runtime profile. For more information, see [Runtime Profiles](IntegrationSettings/runtime-profiles-8007daa.md).

    4.  Enter *Description* for the integration flow.

    5.  Choose <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> search values to add *Sender* and *Receiver* systems. The search values provide a list of sender and receiver systems maintained by SAP.

        > ### Tip:  
        > If you don't find a sender or receiver system of your choice, or want to add your own values, type in the *Sender* and *Receiver* fields and press [tab\] button in your keyboard. You can also add multiple values if it's necessary.

    6.  Choose *Add* to just create an integration flow or *Add and Open in Editor* to open the integration flow in its editor. Alternatively, you can press the [Enter\]/[Return\] key to create an integration flow.


3.  If you want to upload an integration flow, execute the following substeps:

    1.  Choose the *Upload* radio button.

    2.  Choose *Browse* to select the integration project archive from your local file system. When you select the archive file, the *Name* and *ID* fields in the dialog box are filled automatically.

        > ### Note:  
        > -   The integration flow *ID* needs to be unique across the tenant, but you can specify the same *Name* multiple times. When you create a new integration flow, by default the entry for *ID* is generated automatically based on the string entered for *Name* \(with underscore replacing space characters\).
        > 
        > -   However, you can also manually edit the *ID* field and, once it’s modified manually, changing the name of the integration flow doesn’t make any auto-changes to the *ID* field again.

    3.  Choose *Add* to just create an integration flow or *Add and Open in Editor* to open the integration flow in its editor. Alternatively, you can press the [Enter\]/[Return\] key to create an integration flow.





<a name="task_ik5_5wl_wbc__result_r3d_3ws_c5b"/>

## Results

A template-based integration flow with the following shapes is created:

-   *Sender*: Represents your sender system.

-   *Receiver*: Represents the receiver system.

-   *Integration Process*: The shape where you add all the steps that define how a message is processed in the tenant.


