<!-- loioe0b9e8a32c13484e8a72b9e316f9f79e -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Generating Integration Flows with AI Assistance



<a name="loioe0b9e8a32c13484e8a72b9e316f9f79e__prereq_q4x_32w_hfc"/>

## Prerequisites

You have activated the AI feature, Generation of Integrations for your SAP Integration Suite tenant. See [Artificial Intelligence](artificial-intelligence-6a6727c.md)

For more information on region level availability of this feature, see SAP Note [0003656393](https://me.sap.com/notes/0003656393)



<a name="loioe0b9e8a32c13484e8a72b9e316f9f79e__context_tdj_vxl_wbc"/>

## Context

SAP Integration Suite, specifically the Cloud Integration capability, provides a feature to create integration flows using Generative AI. After you activate the feature, an integration developer has a choice to generate integrations with the assistance from AI. The integration developer must describe the integration scenario when asked. Based on the descriptions and inputs, the Generative AI tool creates an integration flow. To use this feature, see the blog on [SAP Integration Suite – Generative AI based Integration Flow Generation with Mediation Steps](https://community.sap.com/t5/technology-blog-posts-by-sap/sap-integration-suite-generative-ai-based-integration-flow-generation-with/ba-p/14196606)

> ### Caution:  
> SAP does not take any responsibility for quality of the content in the input to or output of the underlying generative AI models, including but not limited to, bias, hallucinations, or inaccuracies. The user is responsible for verifying the content.

> ### Note:  
> Availability of this feature depends upon the SAP Integration Suite service plan that you use. For more information about different service plans and their supported feature set, see SAP Note [2903776](https://launchpad.support.sap.com/#/notes/2903776).



<a name="loioe0b9e8a32c13484e8a72b9e316f9f79e__steps_cmx_2xl_wbc"/>

## Procedure

1.  Choose *Design* \> *Integrations and APIs* to view the list of integration packages.

2.  Select the integration package in which you want to add an integration flow and choose *Edit*.

3.  Navigate to the *Artifacts* tab and choose *Add* \> *Integration Flow*.

4.  In the *Add Integration Flow* dialog, choose the method *Generate Integrations with assistance from AI*.

5.  Describe your integration scenario \(in English language\) for which you want to generate an integration flow.

6.  Choose <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> \(Send\).

7.  In the *AI Response* section, you see a positive response if your inputs are fine. Else, you see suggestions from Generative AI tool to add missing information in your scenario description.

8.  In the *Sender System*, one of your registered SAP system is selected. If you want to select another SAP system of same type, choose *Select* and pick a system of your choice.

    > ### Note:  
    > If you haven't enabled system landscape in SAP BTP cockpit, you see an empty *Sender System* field.

9.  Similarly, in the *Receiver System*, one of your registered SAP system is selected. If you want to select another SAP system of same type, choose *Select* and pick a system of your choice.

    > ### Note:  
    > If you haven't enabled system landscape in SAP BTP cockpit, you see an empty *Receiver System* field.

10. A *Name* generated by the Generative AI tool – modify the name, if needed.

11. Choose *Create*.




<a name="loioe0b9e8a32c13484e8a72b9e316f9f79e__result_j55_1nl_xbc"/>

## Results

An integration flow with the following shapes is created:

> ### Note:  
> -   When multiple adapters are identified, Generative AI may not always map the selected source system to the corresponding adapter. As a result, configurations may not be automatically filled.
> -   If you have enabled the connectivity between your system landscape in the SAP BTP cockpit and SAP Integration Suite, your registered SAP applications can expose APIs and events to SAP Integration Suite, which Generative AI tool uses to create integrations.

-   *Sender*: Represents your source system auto-filled with the details of the same in the adapter channel.

-   *Receiver*: Represents your target system auto-filled with the details of the same in the adapter channel.

-   *Integration Process*: The shape with all the intermediary steps as mentioned in the integration scenario descritpion are added. These steps would define how a message is processed in the tenant.

    > ### Remember:  
    > These flow steps are not yet configured. You must manually configure according to the requirement.


