<!-- loio6733197ae44949c286723ab463a5c141 -->

# Managing Messages Stored in Queues

Monitor and manage messages stored in a queue.



When you select a message queue, the messages stored in that queue are displayed.

The following information is displayed for each message shown:

> ### Note:  
> The message queue details view doesn't always show all messages of a queue in a table. Depending on the number and the size of the messages, some messages might not be displayed.

**Message Details**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Attribute

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*JMS Message ID* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

ID of the message in the JMS queue.

This parameter is a unique ID generated by the runtime when the entry is written to the JMS queue.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Message ID* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

ID of the message processing log.

On clicking the *Message ID* link, you navigate to the message processing log for the message \(*Monitor Message Processing* screen\). Here, you can find the integration flow name, the time the message was sent, and other message processing details \([Monitor Message Processing](monitor-message-processing-314df3f.md)\).

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Status* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

The following values are possible:

-   *Waiting*

    The message is still waiting to be processed.

-   *Overdue*

    The message hasn't yet been processed and the deadline \(*Due At* date\) has passed.

-   *Failed*

    An attempt was made to process the message but an error occurred.

-   *Blocked*

    The message was involved in multiple node crashes and was therefore not processed.

    The message isn't automatically restarted as it was probably this message that caused the node to crash. You can see that the status is *Blocked*, and also that the *Retry At* column is empty.

    Check the message size and the integration flow. The message may be too large or there could be an error in the integration flow.

    You can then either delete the message or perform a manual. Make sure that the problem that caused the crash in the integration flow has been resolved. Maybe the size of the virtual machine has to be increased.




</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Due At* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Due date for the message

The due date is calculated as follows: The number of days configured as the *Retention Threshold for Alerting* in the adapter that the message originates from is added to the date on which the message is created. When the due date is reached, the status of the message is set to *Overdue*.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Created At* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Date when the message was stored in the queue.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Retry Count* \(for non-exclusive queues\)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Number of retries of the message.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Next Retry On* \(for non-exclusive queues\)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Date when next retry is scheduled.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Retain Until* \(for non-exclusive queues\)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Date until which the message is retained. Once this date is reached, the message is automatically deleted.

</td>
</tr>
</table>

You can perform the following actions for a selected message:


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Action

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Retry* \(for non-exclusive queues\)

</td>
<td valign="top">

Triggers retry of the selected message. To be able to trigger a message retry, you need the following authorization:

`PI_Integration_Developer` or `PI_Administrator` 

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Delete* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Deletes the selected message. To be able to delete a message, you need the following authorization:

`PI_Administrator` 

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Download* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Downloads the message with attachments as a zip file.

The zip file has four entries with the following names:

-   `attachments`

    Folder that contains message attachments \(as `.txt` files\)

-   `body`

    Contains the message body.

-   `properties.prop`

    Contains the exchange properties.

-   `headers.prop`

    Contains the headers.


> ### Note:  
> If a JMS message has several attachments, a zip entry is generated for each attachment. The names of the attachment entries have the following form: *attachment\_<File Name | Content ID | UUID\>* 
> 
> -   *<File Name | Content ID | UUID\>* means that either the file name, the content ID header, or a UUID is used as the name component, depending on whether the value for the file name or the content ID is available.
> 
> -   If there's no attachment, the zip file doesn't contain an attachment entry.
> 
> -   The naming convention for the entry with the message body is *body\_<Content ID\>*, where *\_<Content ID\>* is only included if there's a content ID header for the body.
> 
> -   The entries `exchange.properties` and `header.properties` are only included if the JMS message has properties or headers.

To be able to download a message, you need the following authorization:

`PI_Business_Expert` 

</td>
</tr>
</table>

