<!-- loioac39f1d1bd2f427c97b3694e54370bda -->

# Managing Data Stores



## Context

The *Manage Stores* section provides an overview of storages that are temporarily used to persist data of different kind during message processing.

> ### Caution:  
> The monitor displays a maximum of 100000 data store entries per data store. If the data store contains more than this limit, search results may be incomplete, and not all relevant entries may be displayed. Keep this limitation in mind when interpreting search results.
> 
> If you need to search through more than 100000 records, we recommend using the [Message Stores API's](https://api.sap.com/api/MessageStore/overview) *Data Stores* resource for efficient querying and retrieval \(see also [Message Stores](message-stores-1aab5e9.md)\).



## Procedure

1.  Choose *Monitor* \> *Integrations and APIs*.

2.  Select the target runtime \(*Runtime* parameter\).

    This information is only relevant for Edge Integration Cell runtime.

    For more information on how to manage stores for Edge Integration Cell, see [Manage Stores for Edge Integration Cell](../manage-stores-for-edge-integration-cell-ced47da.md).

3.  Choose the *Data Stores* tile.

4.  On the left pane of *Manage Data Stores* the name of the data store is displayed.

    Below the data store name the following information is displayed:

    -   The name of an integration flow - in case the the data store is used by one integration flow \(local data store\)
    -   The string `Global` - in case the data store is shared across all integration flows deployed on the tenant \(global data store\)

    Furthermore, the number of entries available in the data store and \(if applicable\) the number of overdue entries is shown for each data store.

5.  On top of the list of data stores, you can access the following functions:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Table Settings
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Description
    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Filter by Name* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Allows you to filter for data store names that contain a certain string.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Sort By* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Allows you to sort the messages either in ascending or descending order. You can select one of the following sorting criteria:

    -   *Name*

    -   *Visibility*

    -   *Total Number of Entries*

    -   *Number of Overdue Entries*



    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Filter By* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Allows you to filter by message using the following sorting criteria:

    -   *Status*: Filters data stores with or without overdue entries \(you can select either one or both options\).

    -   *Visibility*: Filters the data stores by the global or technical name of the integration flow. .


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    
6.  On the right side of the screen, details about the data store selected from the left side are shown.

    The following attributes are displayed for each data store entry:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Attribute
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Description
    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *ID*
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    ID of the data store entry

    The data store entry ID can be specified by the integration flow developer when designing the data store Write step \(*Entry ID* parameter\) or, in case not specified during integration flow design, a unique ID is generated by the system when the entry is written to the data store at runtime.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Message ID* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    ID of the message processing associated with the data store entry

    Allows you to navigate to the related message processing log.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Status* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Status of the data store entry. Possible values are:

    -   *Waiting*: Status after the entry has been written into the data store \(and is waiting to be consumed by another integration flow\)
    -   *Overdue*: Status in case the entry has not been consumed in the specified due time


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Due At* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Date and time the entry is to be consumed \(as configured in the data store Write step, *Retention Threshold for Alerting* parameter\)
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Created At* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Date and time the entry has been created
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Retain Until* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Date and time when the data store entry will be deleted \(as specified in the data store Write step, *Expiration Period* parameter\)
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    
7.  Use the following options available on the header above the table to manage the entries:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Function
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Description
    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Filter by ID*
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    You can filter the list by providing a seach string in the search field. The list displays all entries that contains the search strings in either entry ID or message ID.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Delete* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Deletes one or multiple data store entries.

    To select multiple entries, you need to select the *Multiselect Mode* first \(see below\).
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Download* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Downloads an entry to your computer. You can download only one entry at a time.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Reload Content* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Refreshes the data store entry list.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Table Settings* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Allows you to sort and filter the entries.
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    *Multiselect Mode* 
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    You can use this option to delete multiple entries or to download a single entry .
    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    

**Related Information**  


[Define Data Store Operations](define-data-store-operations-79f63a4.md "You can use the data store to temporarily store messages.")

