<!-- loio42b45c56d36245c991598718f488da11 -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Simulating a Message Implementation Guideline

This chapter shows you how to simulate a message implementation guideline.

1.  Open your message implementation guideline and navigate to the *Structure* tab.

2.  Choose *Simulate* to perform en embedded simulation. There are two different ways to simulate the MIG:

    1.  *Simulate with MIG Example Data*: This simulates the message implementation guideline with the existing sample MIG data.

    2.  *Simulate with Payload Data...*: This prompts you to upload a sample payload file \(XML or EDI Flat file\) for the MIG simulation.

        > ### Note:  
        > The EDI flat file is supported only for EDI based type systems such as ASC X12, Odette, TRADACOMS, and UN/EDIFACT and its subsets.


    You can also re-run the simulation based on the option you chose using the <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> button that appears above the MIG structure after simulation.

    In case of a payload data, re-run simulation runs the simulation again with the payload file uploaded earlier. If you want to use a modified or new payload file for simulation, choose *Simulate* and upload the payload file again under *Simulate with Payload data*.

3.  A new column *Simulation Data* appears in the message structure populated with the following details
    -   The rows with values in the structure are the input values from the payload data.
    -   If there are multiple occurrences of values in the payload, they are denoted by the navigation buttons <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> . These buttons allow you to navigate to the other occurrences of the payload values.
    -   The navigation button <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> <span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span> is also displayed for a group node if it occurs at least once in the simulation data.
    -   The <span class="BusinessSuiteInAppSymbols-V2"></span> icon denotes the leaf node exists in the structure but is empty.

    -   The <span class="BusinessSuiteInAppSymbols-V2"></span> icon denotes that the leaf node does not exist in the structure.




<a name="loio42b45c56d36245c991598718f488da11__section_ikh_cbb_gqb"/>

## How does Simulation work



### Simulate with Example Data

On choosing this option, a complete payload file is generated by the application that corresponds to the MIG definition and is used as input during simulation

*Cardinality*

The cardinality of the group node and leaf node depends on the maximum cardinality when simulating with the example data.

-   If *maxOccurs*= 1, the node gets created only once \(within its parent node\)

-   If *maxOccurs*\>1, the node gets created twice independent of the *maxOccurs* value. This is done so that the repetition of the node is considered without creating very large payload files.

*Values for Leaf Nodes*

The data corresponding to each leaf node is fetched in the following order:

1.  *Example Value*:

    These are the values that are defined as example values for a particular node. To know how to define these values, see [Working with a Node](working-with-a-node-518b54f.md). During simulation, each value from the list in the given order gets assigned to a particular occurrence of a leaf node. When the last value in the list is reached, then the first value is fetched again for the next occurrence. If there is only one example value provided, then the same value is fetched for all the occurrences of the leaf node.

2.  *Fixed Value*:

    If a leaf node has no example value but has a fixed value applied to it, the simulation then fetches the fixed value for all the occurrences of the leaf node. To know how to define a fixed value for the node, see [Working with a Node](working-with-a-node-518b54f.md).

3.  *Code Value*:

    If there is neither an example value nor a fixed value for a particular leaf node, the simulation then considers the data from the code values assigned to a leaf node. To know more about creating and assigning a code list to a leaf node, see [Codelists](codelists-a7a84b0.md).

    If there are any selected code values, only those values will be fetched.

    If no code values are selected, then all the code values will be used.

    Similar to example values, each value from the code value list in the given order gets assigned to a particular occurrence of a leaf node. When the last value in the list is reached, then the first value is fetched again for the next occurrence.

4.  *Dummy Value*

    If none of the above are defined for the node, then a dummy value gets generated for the node based on the node identifier.




### Simulate with Payload Data

Choosing this option allows you to browse and upload a payload data from your local system.

The payload data should be uploaded in the XML or a flat file \(EDI text files such as EDIFACT and X12\) format. The payload you are trying to import might contain additional nodes, or nodes that are not defined in the MIG. These nodes will not be considered during simulation and their details are displayed in a dialog box after importing the payload data. Choose *OK*.

> ### Note:  
> -   The payload file should not have any qualifiers added to it. MIG simulation will convert your payload file automatically into the ICA format including those qualifiers.



