<!-- copy41702e82462e4d3fb4a30dd1547c53d5 -->

# Security Features of the Tenant Cloning Tool

The security features of the Tenant Cloning Tool is described in this section.



<a name="copy41702e82462e4d3fb4a30dd1547c53d5__section_s2k_4lq_4mb"/>

## Auditing and Logging

-   The Tenant Cloning tool calls the APIs provided by SAP Integration Suite and Developer Hub\(developer portal\). Hence, there are no security-related events available in the tool.
-   All application logs generated from the cloning tool are stored in "APIM-Tenant-Cloning-Tool.log", an autogenerated log file.



<a name="copy41702e82462e4d3fb4a30dd1547c53d5__section_wr5_vlq_4mb"/>

## Data Protection and Privacy

-   The tool doesn’t persist any data on its own, nor is there a persistence layer.
-   The tool logs the cloning status in the log file and in the output excel file named “apim-tct-output.xlsx”.
    -   The log and output excel file contain e-mail IDs of application developers, needed for troubleshooting and migration reporting, which are being cloned from source to target system.
    -   The tool doesn’t store any personal data \(except e-mail IDs of application developers\) in the log and output excel file.
    -   We recommend storing the log file and output excel file securely, if further processing is needed; else these files must be deleted.

-   The tool doesn’t read any sensitive personal data.
-   The tool doesn’t change any personal data.



<a name="copy41702e82462e4d3fb4a30dd1547c53d5__section_fvt_mmq_4mb"/>

## Identity and Access Management

-   No specific identity and access management configuration is needed to run the tool.

-   Application developer's details are copied from source to target system as is. If some of the developer information isn’t valid in the IDP configured in the target tenant, it must be corrected.




<a name="copy41702e82462e4d3fb4a30dd1547c53d5__section_k1x_smq_4mb"/>

## Network and Communication Security

The tool uses standard HTTPS communication to make API calls, as provided by the SAP Integration Suite and Developer Hub\(developer portal\).

