<!-- loio0fc1446c4fa547d1b5f991f522c57484 -->

# Service Key Types

You can select different service key types depending on the use case.

There are the following options.

**Service Key Types**


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Key Type

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>
<th valign="top">

Supported Authentication Options

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*ClientId/Secret* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Service key contains a clientId and clientsecret \(client credentials\).

</td>
<td valign="top">

For senders calling an integration flow endpoint:

-   [OAuth with Client Credentials Grant for Integration Flow Processing](oauth-with-client-credentials-grant-for-integration-flow-processing-6c052ce.md) \(using client credentials to get OAuth access token\)

-   [Basic Authentication with clientId and clientsecret for Integration Flow Processing](basic-authentication-with-clientid-and-clientsecret-for-integration-flow-processing-647eeb3.md) \(using client credentials to directly call integration flow\)


For API clients:

[OAuth with Client Credentials Grant for API Clients](oauth-with-client-credentials-grant-for-api-clients-20e26a8.md) \(using client credentials to get OAuth access token\)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*Certificate* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Service key contains a clientId and an x509 client certificate generated by SAP.

Select this option to have SAP BTP generate a client certificate and key pair for you.

When defining a service key with this *Key Type*, you can specify a *Validity in days* parameter \(up to 365 days\).

SAP generates a client certificate and public/private key pair together with the service key. The certificate parameters of the service key \(for example, the issuer DN and the serial number\) are then determined by SAP. The validity of the certificate \(*validuntil* parameter of the certificate\) is calculated based on the entry that you've selected for *Validity in days* when defining the service key.

Furthermore, the certificate is signed by a certificate authority \(CA\) that is supported by SAP BTP.

</td>
<td valign="top" rowspan="2">

For senders calling an integration flow endpoint:

-   [Client Certificate Authentication for Integration Flow Processing](client-certificate-authentication-for-integration-flow-processing-7f84d16.md) \(using client certificate to directly call integration flow\)

-   [OAuth with Client Credentials Grant for Integration Flow Processing](oauth-with-client-credentials-grant-for-integration-flow-processing-6c052ce.md) \(using client certificate to get OAuth access token\)


For API clients:

-   [Client Certificate Authentication for API Clients](client-certificate-authentication-for-api-clients-d9ca0ac.md) \(using client certificate to directly call OData API\)

-   [OAuth with Client Credentials Grant for API Clients](oauth-with-client-credentials-grant-for-api-clients-20e26a8.md) \(using client certificate to get OAuth access token\)




</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

*External Certificate* 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Service key contains a clientId and an x509 client certificate generated by a tool of your choice \(other than SAP BTP\).

If you choose this option, you have to make sure that the certificate gets signed by a certificate authority supported by SAP BTP.

See: [Load Balancer Root Certificates Supported by SAP](load-balancer-root-certificates-supported-by-sap-4509f60.md)

</td>
</tr>
</table>

